---
layout: post
title:  "GSoC Week 3 : Connection Established"
date:   2018-06-03 09:00:00 +0530

---

This week, I can safely say has been the most productive yet. The first part of the week was spent in setting up only a `ping` message from the server. Towards the end, I managed to pass the bindings to the server and and bind the listener. 


## Setting up Connection

I set up a basic api at `/connect/` to send `ping` messages at 10s intervals. To check, I was connecting to `localhost:12345/connect`, becuase thats where (I thought) my api was hosted. The browser console gave this error.
`Content Security Policy: The page’s settings blocked the loading of a resource at self (“default-src”).`
The [CSP](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/security/csp/) header determines what scripts the user is allowed to load. This is to protect against cross-site scripting attacks (XSS). The [`connect-src`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/connect-src) directive allows scripts to open SSE connections. However, a bunch of other changes had to be made in order to get it running on the browser. Jonas suggested trying to get everything working with `curl` first. 

There I realized that the api was actually at `/api/events/v1/connect/`, and there was nothing in the docs to suggest that. All `taskcluster-lib-api` endpoints are at '/api/<serviceName>/<version>/<route>'.

## Handling Server Errors

Error handling is crucial in node as it shuts down the server. Hence, I had to wrap most of my code in try-catch. And in cases of error if the head is already written(connection was successfully established) and the request is still open, send an error message, otherwise send a 5xx status code.

When client closed the connection remotely, we had to end the response. Jonas gave me a good snippet on how we can use a combination of Promises to solve this problem and avoid the `write after end` error.

## Work on bindings

Passing bindings through curl in bash was creating an issue, where the shell would start backgroud process in bash. And I wasn't able to terminate the connection without closing the server. Thus I wrote a simple client script using [EventSource](https://www.npmjs.com/package/eventsource) at `test\api_test.js`. Later this will actually contain tests.

Also the json had to be url encoded. I used the [urlencode](https://www.npmjs.com/package/urlencode) package. It is essentially translating characters like spaces,  parantheses, etc to a universal representation. For example a space is represented by `%20` as you may have observed.

For now json validation is just a function which returns true. I will need to add a check for schema in the coming week.

## Listener

I was able to bind the listener, but not receiving messages. Turns out I didn't give the proper `vhost`. This new parameter was also introduced in v10 of [`taskcluster-client`](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster-client). After this, I opened a [PR](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster-client/pull/96) to update their docs. Once I know what should `vhost` be, I am sure this will work.

## Coming up..

A complete working listener, and tests. After the `listener` is working, we will have to make sure we take care of all errors, and a bit of cleanup. Also, I will be travelling to my hometown this Monday. Hopefully, my prductivity doesn't take a hit!

