---
layout: post
title:  "GSoC Week 8 : Debug, Code, Debug"
date:   2018-07-16 09:00:00 +0530

---

With the new events coming up good, it was time to see how the two parts work together. Since I did not write any code in the 1st week of July, this week was more about getting things done quickly.

## The new Listeners Component

My [PR](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster-events/pull/7) was finally merged after a few minor changes. Now the events server sends the entire message to the client instead of only `message.payload`. This gives them additional information to work with like the `exchange` and `routes` of the message. I also opened another [PR](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster-events/pull/8/) for slight changes while I worked on `tc-tools`

## Getting the client ready

This involved making quite a few decisions, so I was quite active and talking to the guys on IRC. Conventionally, `pulse-inspector` used [`tc-client-web`](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster-client-web) which exposed a `WebListener` which in turn connected to `events.taskcluster.net`.
Since the client was simple to do, we decided its best to put `tc-tools` in direct contact with `tc-events`.

## Trouble with headers

The `EventSource` in `tc-tools` was setting the header `Cache-Control` on its own while [`Access-Control-Allow-Headers`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Headers) in the response did not include `Cache-Control`. This led to an error `Request header field Cache-Control is not allowed by Access-Control-Allow-Headers in preflight response`.

A preflight request is one made by browsers to make sure CORS protocol is respected. In other words it is asking the server if it allows certain operations to be performed. In my case the server did not allow `Cache-Control` to be set by the origin. 

After some discussion, hassan made changes to `tc-lib-api`(v12.3) to add `Cache-Contol` in ACAH  in the preflight response. Everything was working fine..

## All hell breaks loose

..until the `listener.resume` call started giving timeout randomly. I spent a considerable part of my time figuring this out, finally today I figured out it was my institute network causing the problem. It used to work fine at most times except a few hours each day when I would use it. This was after I added  `debug` statements in `node_modules` to see what was going on. 

Meanwhile, `tc-lib-api` v12.3 introduced a minor bug, which was later fixed.

## Coming up

My [PR](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster-tools/pull/544) will most probably be merged next week. Then the final part of the project would be to get these things running in production. On the sides I also started with [`taskcluster-cli`](https://github.com/taskcluster/taskcluster-cli). It is written in `go` and I am hoping to learn more about in the next week. 