---
layout: post
title:  "GSoC Week 4 : Pre All Hands "
date:   2018-06-09 09:00:00 +0530

---

My flight to Kolkata at 22:10 finally departed at 6:30 the next day. This delay meant the next day was totally wasted. This week I couldn't work as much I'd hoped to. I could only manage a total of 3 commits and here are the details-

## Connection to Pulse

The `tc-events` proxy needs to connect to the `Pulse` server in order to receive messages. One part of the redeployability` efforts I talked about in my blog of the first week, was making this server configurable. This introduced two new parameters, `hostname` and `vhost`. For internal projects they are `pulse.mozilla.org` and `/` respectively. I incorrectly set `vhost` to `5781` which was actually the port `tc-client` was using.

With this thing corrected, I could successfully receive messages and verified it by using the test file I created.

## Closing remotely

I had used `res.on('close',abort())` to end the connection from server side when client terminated abruptly.
But the server crashed everytime. Turns out the response object `res` doesn't have a `close` event , the request object `req` does. So `req.on('close', abort())` was the right thing to do. This ensured server handles it smoothly without crashing.

## Coming up...

I am leaving for All Hands tomorrow and I wanted to get the above two things done before I leave, so that we can talk about the next steps. It is a pretty long flight. I am very excited to be able to meet Jonas, Dustin and others I have worked with as well as new people. I don't expect much code to be written in this time, but hope it is a great learning experience. Looking forward to a great week ahead :)
